All right, as great as scope styles are
and we're gonna be using them
in probably 90% of our application.
Sometimes you do want global styles.
And the reason behind that is
because sometimes you want to lay down a base
before you go ahead and build your website.
So some, some really basic stuff like colors and fonts
and sizing of items that all needs to happen globally.
So you're not left redefining the same font size
a hundred times throughout your application.
So in order to do that
we use the create global style API
inside of style components.
And then we simply just inject that into our application.
So we can do that via page.js.
Let's go in there and let's create some global style.
So we'll say const global styles
is equal to create global style.
Boom. Oh, I love that auto import.
Import click over. See what it did.
Vs code is the best.
I don't know how I
how I live without it before that was so good.
I know you're some other editors can do it
but this is great.
So we've create global style back ticks again.
And then inside of here
we just put any styles that we want to be globally applied.
So first thing I'll probably want to do is let's set
up some variables here.
So I'll say HTML, you can set variables
on your HTML tag or, or come a route.
You can, you can literally set them, set them anywhere
but I've always put them on HTML.
And then let's take a look at what we need.
So our dot dash dash red is
is gonna be equal to pound ff one, two, three, four.
That's just the basic red, black is going to be equal
to three nine three nine three nine.
You could grab these from the step solutions.
If you don't wanna watch me do it here.
Gray, a3a3a3a
one little thing I do for the Canadians
and the British and people who spell gray properly.
I actually forget which one we're supposed to use
but you can do this.
And that way, if you accidentally type the wrong gray
it will just back up to that, which is nice.
We have a light gray.
It's going to be a pound e1e1e1
And then we will set that also to this
look at that because it's auto completion.
Boom. Cool.
And then we've got off-white.
That is going to be, Oh
it's gotta be dash dash ededede ed, ed, ed.
And then we got our maxwidth
I always like to put like a maxwidth value
in case I need to use it few times through
I put it in a variable and that will be a thousand PX.
And then finally I have a BS Box-shadow variable.
I do this in all my projects as well
because every time you add a Box-shadow to something
if you like change it slightly different
then your app starts looking like funky.
And you're not sure you don't know why.
So I put it in a variable so that I can always
adjust box size, a Box-shadows in one spot,
0 12px 24px 0 rgba is going to be 0,0,0.09.
Actually, this does not need to be in a, it's not a string.
It's just a CSS property.
That's good.
Okay, cool.
So now let's just hop back real quick to our nav.
Where do we use that or header?
Where did we use black?
There we go right here.
So we've got the black there.
We got the black there.
We can take these fallbacks off.
It doesn't hurt to, to keep the fallbacks.
Oh, it hasn't changed yet.
Why is it not that light gray?
Well, we actually define our global styles
but we have not used them yet.
Now in order to just use global styles
you can simply just go
into your page component and inject them right in like that.
And you see right away by injecting that
that turned to a lighter gray and I should be able to now go
into the variable set we just made
which is this one and change it to BADA55.
And that was the wrong one.
Should be black.
Yeah. See in the updates
wherever I've been used, which is awesome.
Okay. So that's, that's our first set of global styles.
Let's what else do we need?
Well, we need some fonts.
Maybe we'll do the fonts up here.
So at font face, what do we want?
Font family is going to be called radnika underscore next
the source is, and this is an absolute URL
almost always in, in JavaScript land.
When you're building websites
you're not referencing just static files
but in the case of your fonts, we will be doing that.
And you can see
that they are stuck right here in our public static.
We only have three files in here
that we need so forward slash static for slash red.
Oh man, this is gonna be hard.
I better go here and just copy it.
Copy name.
Here we go.
And we also have to say, format is waff2
font weight is normal and font style is normal.
Okay. Oh, this dash should not be here.
Okay. Now, if we go down here, let's grab our body tag.
Let's say font, family.
I always like to use this like this, this one
vs code will auto suggest that to you put that one in.
That's a really good font stack
or we'll try use this Apple system first.
So that's a pretty good already.
And then what we can do is we can just put
in right in front of it.
Where you put the new font that we just did
which is rednika underscore next
There we go
That's looking pretty slick while we're here.
Let's let's do a little bit of reset.
Now you could import normalize that CSS
or you can just write a couple resets yourself.
What we'll do here is we'll go
on our HTML and we'll say box sizing, border box
and let's grab star star before and star after.
Oh, look at this double triple
we'll say box sizing inherit.
Not we'll make sure that when we add padding and border
to an element it takes away from the size
instead of growing it.
And that's how you get a lot
of these weird horizontal scroll bugs.
Let's go back to the body here.
And let's just say padding zero margin zero
font size 1.5rem
line height is 2, look at that, it's looking better already.
I'll go below that.
Let's just select and style all of our links.
So would you say a text decoration
none color as far dash dash black.
All right.
That's looking pretty good.
We should put a hover on them just for now.
So we know when we're hovering them.
We'll change that once we hit the thing
we'll say a hover text, decoration, underline,
look I'm pretty good.
And then it just
the one like little weird thing is you also
have to select your buttons and apply the font family
to it because for whatever reason, setting a font
on the body does not also apply to buttons, which is odd.
So we just have to, we gotta put that in globally.
Okay. So that's all of our global styles.
I believe they've been injected into our page.
Next up.
What I wanna do is I just want to style all of this
right here, H well, we really don't need these two
but the whatever is wrapped around that.
So we can constrain the width and I'll call
that inner style.
So say const inner styles is equal to style dot.
It's a diff in this case, and it looks like style
is not imported.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's triple check.
There we go.
It's important there.
And we'll just give it a max-width
of VAR dash dash maxwidth
we'll center it margin zero auto and padding 2rem.
All right, let's see.
That's not working yet.
Cause we haven't put it up against.
So let's go and take that inner styles now where
we see this, we can get rid of this.
We're not testing anymore.
We're we're actually writing code now.
Open it up and then put your children inside of that.
So we've got our global styles
we've got our header and then we ever inner styles.
And that is all of the content that goes inside
of here will be set off from that.
All right, this is looking pretty good in the next video.
Let's go over how to visually see what's happening when
you change the page.